Moz-Grid-Config
===============

Configuration and launch scripts for Mozilla's [Selenium Grid] environment.

[Selenium Grid]: http://selenium-grid.seleniumhq.org/

Prerequisites
-------------

  1. [Java Runtime Environment]
  2. [ANT]

[Java Runtime Environment]: http://www.oracle.com/technetwork/java/javase/downloads/index.html
[ANT]: http://ant.apache.org/

Configuration
-------------

Default properties are set in `project.properties`, and these can be overridden
for an individual machine by providing a `<HOSTNAME>.project.properties` file.
Any properties in this file will override the default. To find out your hostname
run `ant debug` in the location you've checked out this project and look for
something that looks like the following line:

    [echoproperties] env.HOSTNAME=LokiMac.local

In this example the hostname is `LokiMac.local` so your properties file will be
`LokiMac.local.project.properties`

Properties
----------

Below are the properties that can be configured:

**grid.version**

The version number of Selenium Grid to use. This is used to locate the library,
for example a value of `1.0.8` will load the library
`lib/selenium-grid-remote-control-standalone-1.0.8.jar`

**hub.host**

The host that Selenium Grid's hub is running on. This is used for any launching
Selenium RC servers to register with the hub.

**hub.port**

The port that Selenium Grid's hub is running on. Also used when Selenium RC
servers are registering with the hub.

**rc.version**

The version of Selenium server to use. Thhis is used to locate the library, for
example a value of `2.0b3` will load the library
`vendor/selenium-grid-hub-standalone-2.0b3.jar`

**rc.host**

The host of the Selenium RC that you want to register with the Selenium Grid
hub. This is needed so that Selenium Grid can communicate back to the server.
This property should not be set in `project.properties` because it will differ
for each machine. It's best placed in the `<HOSTNAME>.project.properties` file.

**rc.port**

The port of the Selenium RC that you want to register with the Selenium Grid
hub. Along with the host, this is needed so that Selenium Grid can communicate
back to the server. This property should not be set in `project.properties`
because it will differ for each machine, and it should also not be set in
`<HOSTNAME>.project.properties` file as you are likely to want to invoke
multiple servers on each machine. The best way to set this property is via the
command line. See the section on **Launching a Selenium RC server** below for
details.

**rc.environment**

The environment to register the launching Selenium RC with in the Selenium Grid
hub. This property should not be set in `project.properties` because it will
differ for each machine, and it should also not be set in
`<HOSTNAME>.project.properties` file as you are likely to want to invoke
multiple servers on each machine with different environment names. The best way
to set this property is via the command line. See the section on **Launching a
Selenium RC server** below for details.

**rc.arguments**

Any additional arguments to pass to Selenium RC server when it's launched. For
example, *-singleWindow* would launch the Selenium and the application under
test in the same window using frames.

**custom.firefox.profile**

The path of a custom Firefox profile to use. If this property is specified but
the value is empty then Selenium will not provide the *-firefoxProfileTemplate*
command line argument and a fresh profile will be generated. Note that the
Firefox profile needs to be located in `firefoxprofiles` directory, and the
value of this property is the relative path within `firefoxprofiles`.

Launching a Selenium Grid hub
-----------------------------

Run the following command from the project's location:

    ant launch-hub

Launching a Selenium RC server
------------------------------

Run the following command from the project's location:

    ant launch-remote-control -Drc.port=<PORT> -Drc.environment=<ENVIRONMENT>

Where `<PORT>` is the port you want to run the Selenium RC server on, and
`<ENVIRONMENT>` is the name of the environment you want to register with
Selenium Grid's hub.

If you have not specified a value for `rc.host` in your
`<HOSTNAME>.project.properties` file then you can also specify this on the
command line by appending `-Drc.host=<HOST>` where `<HOST>` is the host of the
machine.
